This study introduces a comprehensive dataset of digitalized artworks, designed to function as visual stimuli for empirical aesthetics research. A novel aspect of this study is its inclusion of artworks from often underrepresented cultures (Mexican and Central/South American art, African art, and Middle Eastern and South Asian art) and categories (Theological and Spiritual art, Public art,  and Modern Western art). Each piece was selected in consultation with subject matter experts, ensuring the representation of historically pivotal artworks that embody a range of global artistic heritage.

Our curated collection consists of 320 paintings evaluated by 880 individuals without formal art training. Unlike other datasets that focus primarily on emotional valence and liking, this study introduces a detailed evaluation of eleven specific aesthetic impacts: pleasure, calm, compassion, anger, challenge, upset, interest, enrapturement, edified, enlightenment, and inspiration, plus two general aesthetic evaluations—beauty and liking. 

For each artwork, we composed aesthetic impact profiles using both fine-grained (individual impacts and aesthetic evaluations) and coarse-grained analyses (impacts grouped into positive emotions, negative emotions, motivation/immersion, and epistemic transformation). Leveraging the latter classification, we developed an interactive digital platform accessible at [https://vicenteestradagonzalez.shinyapps.io/CfNdatabase/], that organizes the artworks within a four-dimensional space, allowing users to navigate and select stimuli based on their specific emotional or cognitive impact profiles.

The integration of expertly chosen pieces across diverse cultural and aesthetic impacts establishes this dataset as a theoretically-motivated resource for artwork selection in neuroaesthetics research.

